Check out these exciting capabilities with the free IBM Robotic Process Automation software trial.
With Robotic Process Automation (RPA) predicted to remain one of the fastest, double-digit growth software segments through 2024, according to Gartner, it is worth exploring how to best exploit this technology to automate work and solve business problems. Being able to test RPA and imagine its many applications in your organization is now a possibility.

Register today for the free, 30-day IBM Robotic Process Automation software trial.

Top reasons to test out an RPA tool
Below are six reasons to sign up for the free IBM Robotic Process Automation software trial:

It exposes you to RPA software. Survival in today’s digital workforce requires agility. You need solutions that allow you to deliver what your customers demand with record speed and improved efficiency. This sneak peek into the world of automation technology, where high-volume productivity is the norm, is a no-brainer.
It’s free. Nada. Nothing. It’s not often that you can experience such a rich offering embedded with artificial intelligence insights without paying a cent. Leveraging a complimentary RPA tool that could positively influence your bottom line before fully investing in software robots is a worthwhile use of your time.
You’ll get to use cutting-edge RPA features. For example:
Intelligent virtual agents: Combines chat and RPA commands to answer questions and handle simple tasks without human involvement.
Concurrent execution: Reduces costs and increases optimization by running multiple software bots on the same virtual host.
IBM Cloud Pak for Business Automation integration: Extends your automation and RPA capabilities as part of our business automation platform.
Cloud-based Software as a Service (SaaS): Provides flexibility and convenience and can increase return on investment (ROI).
It’s only 30 days. Investing a short amount of time to expand your skills with intelligent automation is justifiable. Thanks to our easy-to-use, low-code tools with built-in commands, you will be able to stand up your bots in a matter of minutes. In no time, you will be able to realize how applying RPA to projects across your organization quickly pays off.
Additional perks. Membership has its privileges. Below are a few no-cost trial incentives:
Access to bot scripts, product videos and IBM forums
Entry into Automation Recipes, our interactive RPA web training series.
Eligibility to participate in a half-day workshop to learn how RPA can drive high-impact initiatives and help you achieve digital transformation.
You’ll be a hero in your organization. Remaining competitive requires staying ahead of the curve. Participating in the trial and identifying ways that your organization can streamline business operations and improve the customer experience only helps you and your team. From physicians saving hours of time to focus on patients instead of processing healthcare consent documents to financial services firms automating compliance regulations instead of manually managing them, RPA use cases are limitless.
Register for the free trial of IBM Robotic Process Automation
Hopefully, you now see the benefits of joining the trial and getting some hands-on experience with RPA. To get started today, register for the free, 30-day IBM Robotic Process Automation software trial.
